we are using countless ways to bring
back our
hostages I will not sit in a government
that raises a white
flag I think of them all the time of
their families and their suffering God
forbid the government should adopt this
surrender offer I believe that if a real
deal is on the table Netanyahu will vote
for a new deal we will work to replace
the failed leadership with new
leadership
[Music]
welcome to the day last Friday it seemed
like there was genuine progress in
ending months of Destruction and
bloodshed in Gaza US President Joe Biden
outlined a three-part plan for an
Israeli Hammer ceasefire which he said
came from the Israelis but today
Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu made clear that there will be
no truce without his government's
conditions being met then he claims to
the contrary are incorrect here's the
spokesperson explaining the explaining
the
disconnect um he said and I quote the
outline that President Biden presented
is partial uh the war will be stopped
for the purpose of returning hostages
and then we will proceed with further
discussions well Mr Netanyahu is under
increasing pressure from Washington to
end the war but he's also facing push
back from his far-right Coalition
partners they've criticized the draft
deal as Reckless and tantamount to
surrender if it's signed without the
elimination of Hamas two ministers are
threatening to sink The Fragile
Netanyahu coalition government over the
plan if the government chooses to adopt
this offer of surrender we will not be
part of the government and we will work
to replace the failed leadership with
new leadership which knows how to make
decisions to win the war decisions which
destroy Hamas bring home the hostages
hit Hezbollah and allow residents in the
north to safely return to their
homes well the White House maintains the
ceasefire plan is good for Gaza and good
for Israel national security spokesman
John Kirby said the intention of
President Biden's speech last week was
to pressure Hamas to accept the deal and
not to put Netanyahu in a bind this
wasn't about jamming the prime minister
of the war cabinet this was about laying
Bear for the public to see how well and
how Faithfully um and how assertively
the Israelis came up with a new proposal
how it shows how much they really want
to get
this ahood Almer was prime minister of
Israel from 2006 to 2009 and joins us
now from Jerusalem uh welcome back to DW
um could we start with today's news that
four hostages being held by Hamas have
been confirmed dead by the Israeli
military that was just in the last
couple of
hours yeah this is a very sad news as
you can imagine we are losing them
almost day by day uh uh two weeks ago we
thought that we have
133 now we have
120 which means that 13 of the hostages
that we thought were held by the U Hamas
somewhere in Gaza on the ground are now
dead and every day that passes they
bring uh worse news so they need to uh
reach an agreement that will bring back
all the hostages is quite urgent right
and and you're of the opinion that that
this this news means that we should move
more urgently in the direction of a
ceasefire deal rather than more urgently
in the direction of destroying
Hamas well I thought uh maybe a few
months ago already that we have reached
a point where we have achieved most of
what we set out to achieve in the
military operation in the first place
and that uh we don't need to continue
the war and I definitely think that now
it's overtime we need to stop the War
now and we have uh to accept the
proposal which was presented by
President Biden which I now know that
actually was submitted by the Israeli
government and uh that hopefully will uh
bring us to the point where we can make
an exchange of all the hostages uh so
that uh we'll bring them back and what
want to get them forgive me please
continue
oh go ahead um what do you make of the
confusion surrounding that ceasefire
proposal apparently signed off by
Israeli negotiators announced to the
World by an American president and now
disavowed by the Israeli Prime Minister
what do you think is going
on I wish I could tell you I wish that
someone would be able to explain and to
understand the uh uh policy of our
government uh it appeared to me from the
beginning that uh uh while it was
possibly submitted by Israel that the
main question was not whether Biden
supports this plan but whether the
Israeli government supports the plan
which was presented by the Israeli
government this I think just indicates
again that the degree of confusion and
uh a lack of leadership uh by the
Israeli Prime Minister the choice is
very simple and it's very clear it's not
easy but it's
simple the only way to get back the
hostages is to stop the war it is what I
think we should do anyway because we
have reached a point where any further
military confrontation will not lead us
into any great achievement so we can at
the end lose the hostages and not uh
achieve that kind of complete victory
that net was talking about so this is
the time the only problem is that as we
all know and I'm sure that you know very
well that the Israeli Prime Minister is
held and is uh squeezed and perhaps is
extorted by his political Partners his
political partners that say in the most
explicit manner that will leave the
government and they will break down the
Coalition if this plan which was as we
know now submitted by Israel but was
presented by President Biden will be
accepted by Israel formally and openly
which will lead into the end or at least
a temporary end of the war for maybe 82
days which means practically ending the
war and uh the Prime Minister has now to
make a choice what he wants more to risk
the stability of his government and
bring back the hostages or to maintain
the stability of his government at the
cost of lives of uh the remaining 120
Israeli hostages still held by these
MERS and it sounds like you're quite
clear that you believe that uh he should
go for this this deal and end the war
quicker absolutely I thought the we
should have gone to this deal long
before even before this was The
Proposal uh in maybe two or three other
occasions which took place earlier over
the last few months but certainly now
now it has reached a point where it is
absolutely clear that every day that
passes may cause the loss of more lives
of the
hostages and we are not moving anywhere
in the military operation that is of any
significant
that can make a difference in terms of
the overall
balance uh so I think we have uh beaten
the Hamas in a very significant way they
lost more than 12 thousands of their
Fighters their their um tunnels their
headquarters their command position the
launchers the Rockets they almost
completely lost them they probably have
few more that they can shoot but they
have lost the bulk of it
and uh so uh there is no need and no
real interest of Israel to continue this
military operation and risking the life
of these people and losing the the
support of the International Community
which we have greatly lost anyway and
also maybe also killing unnecessarily
more innocent civilians or the among
Palestinians okay that uh there no
justification for it so all together if
you look at
broader aspect of what is going on the
time has come for a complete cation of
uh the military
operation uh immediately afterwards when
the hostages will be returned we have to
pull out from Gaza there should be an
international intervention force that
will take over preferably it should be a
Palestinian together with moderate AR
countries but if they are not ready yet
which I think they are not there should
be an international European
intervention Force for a period of time
I know that European countries are not
happy about this option but they were
not happy in 2006 after the towards the
end of the second Lebanese war and yet
they uh took part in in the
military force that were brought to the
south of Lebanon and that has created a
ceas fire for 17
years there is a advantage in doing this
hope it will be done soon so it it
sounds like you certainly have an idea
of what happens the day after uh which
of course is um the the what what Benny
Gant needs to hear from uh Benin
Netanyahu if he also isn't to quit this
uh government in two days um how should
Mr Netanyahu respond to that threat from
Benny Gans
you know I'm not certain that I'm the
best advisor to prime minister nany as
far as I'm concerned netan should
disappear all together so that uh we can
establish a new government that will be
responsible and uh serious and
courageous and have a vision about the
uh future of this region all together
which I'm not sure netan is the guy I
I'm certain that he's not the guy so uh
you know on the one hand the obvious uh
is that guns and Eisen cour should leave
the cabinet not in two days but tonight
on the other hand if netan will choose
to accept the proposal which he himself
submitted to President Biden and will
agree to AAS fire now and to the end of
the war now it can give a good reason
for gun and Eisen to remain in the
cabinet at least for a while in order to
allow this to take place netan doesn't
have a problem in terms of the majority
in Parliament to accept this because all
the opposition will vote for the plan
which was submitted uh for for the ceas
fire but as I said before problem is
that Netanyahu doesn't think about
what's good for Israel but what's good
for netan and it appears that it's not
good for netan to end the war now
because he will lose his government
thank you for talking to us and talking
us through that Ehud a former prime
minister of Israel thank you so
much thank you plan for a
ceasefire well Yosi bin has served in a
variety of ministerial positions in the
Israeli government before retiring from
politics in 2008 he was also one of the
architects of the 1993 Oslo Accords he's
now a journalist and business consultant
welcome to DW let's start with this
disputed peace plan apparently signed
off by Israeli negotiators announced to
the World by an American president and
now apparently disavowed by an Israeli
Prime Minister what do you think is
going
on well it is very strange apparently
netanyahu's work cabinet decided to
suggest some
ideas to the to the pamas
through Qatar or or or other channel H
but did not announce it and uh so other
ministers of his government were not
aware of it h mainly because he was
worried that since they they belong to
the extreme rtist group they would
torpedo the ideas of the smaller cabinet
and here President Biden did something
which was very smart in my view
he exposed netan and said this is your
plan this is what you sent to the other
side what we would like to see is that
you stick to your own ideas and nany
found himself in the corner he could not
deny it he just said that it was not the
full ofer but only parts of it or
something like that which nobody took
too seriously so it is now up to the the
Hamas to to decide whether they accept
it or not and I hope that it will really
change the situation and and enable us
to have a ceasefire in which the
hostages will be released and now we
have rightwing elements of Mr
netanyahu's fragile Coalition
threatening to leave to bring it down uh
if this is acted on what do you think he
should do should he call their Bluff
I think that there is no real problem
because H first of all it is time to get
rid of them there are really bunch of
lunatics who were never participated in
any previous government Nan
himself promised only two or three years
ago that they will never be part of his
government but when he found that
without them he could not form a a a
government he decided to breach his
promise now he has an opportunity to get
rid of of the whole group and to get a
safety net for his Coalition for the C
from the center left parties H who
promised which promised him this safety
net and I think that that that is what
he should do have a long
ceasefire in in that
time get the assurance that all
hostages are free and begin to negotiate
with the Palestinians on the permanent
agreement something that he said that is
not urgent for him to begin so is it
your un understanding then that that Mr
Netanyahu without these right-wing
extremists would actually be more amable
uh to um some sort of ceasefire deal
because the mood music that that we hear
around this is that uh that he's
prolonging this war in order to stop
himself from having to face the music on
various criminal charges but you seem to
see him as being held hostage uh by the
right-wing elements in his
government he was not held hostage he
invented them I mean his idea to to ask
them to join the cabinet was in my view
the worst thing that he did
and the the ramifications were
endless so he is not their host hostage
he can and should get rid of them and
and assure himself that he has a safety
net and he will have a safety in it so
he he doesn't have to worry about him
continuing to be the Prime Minister for
the coming months whether he has a
secret plan to prolong the war forever
in
order for the for the court to have
mercy on him and not to judge his him
harshly because he's in the middle of
the war this is a guess I don't know
whether this is true or not I I it is
not a question of of effect the question
of the fact is only that he has a
government even if these people leave
him and and finally and and briefly if
you would in mind you helped negot the
1993 Oslo Accords what do you think is
missing now that made peace possible
then an Israeli leader who is willing to
make peace with the Palestinians and to
partition the land in order for the two
peoples to live side by side and fulfill
their right for S
determination thank you so much for
explaining that so clearly y see baing
thank
you thank you thank you for having
me let's see if we can work out what's
going on with DW correspondents Benjamin
Alvarez gruba in Washington DC and Tanya
Kramer in Jerusalem welcome both let's
start with you Tanya um why is the
Israeli government now apparently
distancing itself from a ceasefire plan
that President Biden says they
approved well that's very much discussed
here as well and the way it's being seen
here is that prime minister Benin is
trying to reframe uh in a way or to put
a different spin on the outlines that
were given by President Joe Biden on
Friday night in a way to counter the
anticipated criticism by some of his own
cabinet members especially from the far
right that have threatened uh to walk
out of the government uh if uh such a
deal or agreement would go through but
also prime minister benam netan himself
has said it time and time again again
also in a statement that you know Israel
uh won't end the war and uh that it
needs to continue the war to eliminate
Hamas and this is one of the main
disparities here between the outline
that we've been hearing from US
President Joe Biden and you know what uh
Israel is uh trying to say here the
sticking point also that is a sticking
point actually not just for Israel but
also uh for Hamas and uh what actually
we're seeing in this outline that was
given is that the first phase would be a
temporary uh ceasefire where some of the
hostages would be released and then both
sides would have to continue negotiating
to come to this uh um uh permanent
ceasefire and the release of the other
hostages that will remain until then in
Gaza but also Hamas of course has to
agree to this and we are still waiting
for an official response but there's no
doubt and we just heard it um tonight
the Army declared four more uh hostages
uh uh that were killed in captivity in
uh Gaza and of course the public
pressure as well is mounting on prime
minister Benyamin atan to come to a
decision so Benjamin Alvarez guber in
Washington does this Israeli
backtracking over the president uh over
the plan the president presented three
days ago does this leave President Biden
with egg on his
face the White House says that what's
important also to see other Regional
partners are looking at this proposal
and there have been many comments coming
out from Washington on this topic Jake
Sullivan the US National Security
advisor said Israel has shown
willingness to agree to a ceasefire and
hostage release by this deal that was
set out by President Biden and the White
House is insisting that this peace plan
was Israel's own and was not drafted by
Washington to put a pressure on its
allies some people have been suggested
and that still seems to be necessary as
many still wonder why it wasn't us
president and not an Israeli Prime
Minister presenting what President Biden
called this Israeli proposal so all this
this backtracking this must be
stretching an already fraught
relationship between Mr Biden and Mr
Netanyahu that's right and frustration
is growing with the Israeli government
Among Us officials but there is mixed
signaling here again because there's
another aspect here not just the
frustration behind a closed doors what's
also happening is
this bipartisan invitation so from both
Republicans and Democrats to invite
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu to
deliver an address to Congress that was
confirmed also on Friday after President
Biden laid out this proposal for a three
phas ceasefire so a push that can be
seen as trying to raise netanyahu's
political standing in Israel so the
timing here is important because if this
speech takes place actually before there
is an agreement it might be used even by
Netanyahu to argue against the deal and
this visit of course it will also be
kind of awkward if for Democratic Senate
Majority Leader Shak Schumer who
supported this letter in this invitation
and who has previously called for Israel
to hold a new elections in Israel and
tan krer what's your take how long and
how hard can this Israeli government
test the Biden administration's
patience well I think there's a sense
here that there are two sides who need
to make uh you know to come to this
agreement and so far I think that
there's a sense here that the US has
been patient at least so far but of
course there's also a sense that prime
minister Benjamin netan has to come to a
decision he hasn't taken that until now
and now it's the time to go forward okay
thank you for that Tanya Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem Benjamin Alvarez grber in
Washington thank you both